nodemon --> whenever the files are changed , it automatically restarts the server

prettier is also dev dependency

db connection studying ----> in mongodb atlas , you should allow your ip address access, correct id and pwd,
never do allow access from anywhere

export const DB_NAME="videotube" ---> this was added in cosntants.js becz it is application db name, not added in .env

2 approach of connecting with db:
put all code in index files and index file code function directly executed
write code in db folder and import it in index file which the code will be clean, separated and modular

print the connectionInstance from index.js from src/db/
study about process.exit(1);

app will be thorugh express and db will be through mongoose

mongoose only connects with the db
whenever communicating with db, keep these points in mind:
wrap it in try-catch
db is always in another continent, it means it takes time and hence use async-await



always import and config as early as possible in my application of env , load it in first variable


import syntax in dotenv can be used as experimental features like this
while writing code make sure to test both the try and catch block with positive and -ve cases

when changing the env variable you have to restart the server, nodemon can't do anything of its own

Two important points about database connectivity: 

1. When connecting to databases, handling potential data-not-found scenarios is essential. Employ try/catch blocks or promises to manage errors or we can also use promises.

key to remember : ( wrap in try-catch )

2. Database operations involve latency, and traditional synchronous code can lead to blocking, where the program waits for the database query to complete before moving on. So, we should async/await which allows for non-blocking execution, enabling the program to continue with other tasks while waiting for the database response. 

key to remember :  ( always remember the database is in another continent, so use async await)

Exit code assignment

1. using exit() method of process object:
    usecase: It is used if you want to terminate the execution completely regardless of any async operation an all.
    default value exit(0)  which indicate exit successfully without any interption.
    any non zero value  like exit(1) indicates process exit intentionaly.

code :   
 function hello() {
    process.exit(1);
    console.log('hello');
}
hello();

in this  code process will terminate without logging hello in the console.

2. using exitCode property  of process:
    usecase: It is used if you want to terminate the execution completely but allowing to completion of the pending tasks.
    default value exitCode=0  which indicate exit successfully without any interption.
    any non zero value  like exitCode=1 indicates process exit intentionaly.

code: 
function hello() {
    process.exitCode = 1;
    console.log('hello');
}
hello();

in this code process will exit but after logging hello in the console.

Connecting database in MERN with debugging

- Created MongoDb Atlas account.
- Created a Database and connect I.P Address to access database from anywhere.
- Used `dotenv , mongoose , express` packages.
- Two important points about database connectivity: 

    1. When connecting to databases, handling potential data-not-found scenarios is essential. Employ try/catch blocks or promises to manage errors or we can also use promises.

        - key to remember : ( wrap in try-catch )

    2. Database operations involve latency, and traditional synchronous code can lead to blocking, where the program waits for the database query to complete before moving on. So, we should async/await which allows for non-blocking execution, enabling the program to continue with other tasks while waiting for the database response. 

        - key to remember :  ( always remember the database is in another continent, so use async await)


- Used two approach to connect the database - 1. In Index File, 2. In Seprate DB file

- Assignments - 
    - console log `connectionInstance`
    - Read more about process.exit code
DB is another continent, hence use promises or try-catch with async-await whenever you are connecting to any database, thanks Hitesh Sir for teaching with this much clarity!

1. Assignments : 
    - Read about process and exit() method in nodejs
    - Console log karke dekho joh object DB connect hone par return hota hai.

2. Tips: 
    - Read the errors before referring to any material for resolving.
    - write error statements in a clear manner, debuggging mei help karegi.
    - env file mei change karte hi, server ko restart karna hi padega, no other option, nodemon env files ka track nahi rakhta.


always use async await because talking to DB takes time and use try catch








lect-9:

url -> req.params --> url has data , url has ? , search, etc.
req.body -> data can be in any format , configs of different type
data will be pulled from cookies too

cookie parser -> middleware, whenever you are using middleware, you mostly use app.use()
app.use() is used mostly in configs or middleware

settings in cors -> corsOptions is an object which has defined origin (means from where in frontend i am accepting request for my backend)
CORS_ORIGIN ----> do not mention in * in real production projects means request can come from anywhere, write the url specifically , we can use for now
what is the meaning of this: (property) e.CorsOptions.credentials?: boolean | undefined?


data can come from anywhere in backend -> json, form, body -> there are some settings to be made -> app.use for configs -> use express.json() has options , limit of any size , when we get data from url, somewhere it has + for space or %20 for space etc. use url encoder hence we use app.use(express.urlencoded({}))

app.use(express.static) ---> files/folder store or imgs ---> puclic assets to be stored and hence named as "public"

cookieParser from "cookie-parser --> server se user ka browser hai na , uske andar ki cookies access kar sako, set the cookies too, do the crud ops on cookies and for that write app.use()

middleware --> a check added in between access the endpoint and sending the response from the backend, this is to avoid unnecessary use of compute power, there can be multiple middlewares, it is added in sequence

(req, res) is not always two it is (err, req, res, next) --> the next here is the middleware, it is only a flag, just keep checking at the next middlewares

also why writing connectDB in every controller and so many times, hence create a utility file and a generalize function for wrapper , hence asyncHandler is Created

whenever there is an error, it should go via ApiError.js